get/set feedback PR (#1)
cafreeman/rfcs: text/0000-remove-set-get-in-tests.md

```js
this.set('name', 'foo');

await render(hbs`<MyComponent @name={{this.name}} />`);

assert.dom('[data-test-name]').hasText(this.get('name'));
```

This approach has two main issues:

1. It's not consistent with any other programming model in Ember
1. It makes writing tests in TypeScript a huge pain

On the first point: `this.set` is essentially irrelevant everwhere else in Ember. In a post-Octane world, we no longer need to `get` or `set`, and it is, in fact, frequently discouraged as an unnecessary complication. Furthermore, `this.set` inside of a test is even stranger than it was in application code since `set` in tests also manipulates the run loop and flushes the entirety of DOM (in additon to actually setting the value of a property on `this`), and the value of `this` is extremely murky in the first place. The fact that `this` is both the test context _and_ a sort of ersatz scope for the surrounding "template" of the rendering test is not exactly intuitive or easy to teach.

> On the second point: having to set properties on `this` leads to a whole bunch of papercuts when writing tests in TypeScript. [As discussed in the `ember-cli-typescript` docs](https://docs.ember-cli-typescript.com/ember/testing#the-testcontext), since rendering tests require developers to arbitrarily add (and change) properties on `this`, you have to define (and re-define) the interface for `this` to accomodate all of those properties just to prevent TypeScript from complaining that each of the values that were set don't exist on the `TestContext` type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the second point: having to set properties on `this` leads to a whole bunch of papercuts when writing tests in TypeScript. [As discussed in the `ember-cli-typescript` docs](https://docs.ember-cli-typescript.com/ember/testing#the-testcontext), rendering tests require developers to arbitrarily add (and change) properties on `this`. Developers thus have to define (and re-define) the interface for `this` to accommodate *all* of those properties to prevent TypeScript from complaining that each of the values that were set don't exist on the `TestContext` type. Beyond simply being annoying, this actually makes it impossible to write actually safe and useful types spanning multiple tests: properties declared for one test appear to be available in all of the tests in a module (and get autocompleted accordingly), whether or not they actually *are* available.
```

The goal of this RFC, then, is to greatly simplify the testing model by removing the need for `get` and `set` in rendering tests, thereby reducing the reliance on `this`.

## Detailed design

We will introduce several new/refactored utilities for use in rendering tests:

1. A new version of `render` that accepts a component rather than a template.
1. A new `scopedTemplate` function that accepts a template and returns a component _and is lexically scoped_
1. A new `rerender` function that would be used after the initial `render` call

Rendering tests currently work by rendering a template that is bound to the `this` of the surrounding test file. This is why developers have to call `this.set` in the first place, since the value of `this` in a given test is doing double duty as both the actual test context AND the backing object for the template that eventually gets rendered. Since we want to move away from this very behavior, we need a version of `render` that accepts a fully-formed component instead, since components have their own context and are self-contained.

> Once we've got this new version of `render`, we also need a convenient way of creating components to pass to it. This is where the `scopedTemplate` function comes in. `scopedTemplate` would accept a template (created using the `hbs` macro today, or the `<template>` tag in the future), and return a newly-formed component class which could then be passed to our new version of `render`. In addition, the template passed to `scopedTemplate` would be lexically scoped, meaning that it's values would pull _directly from the surrounding scope_, i.e. the values defined in the test itself. With this new approach, instead of having to call `this.set` for each value you want to reference in the template, you instead just define the data you want and reference it directly in the template. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have this new version of `render`, we also need a convenient way of creating components to pass to it. This is where the `scopedTemplate` function comes in. `scopedTemplate` would accept a template created using the `hbs` macro, and return a newly-formed component class which could then be passed to our new version of `render`. (A proposal like `<template>` from [RFC #0779](https://github.com/chriskrycho/ember-rfcs/blob/fcct/text/0779-first-class-component-templates.md) would supersede this, as the components created with first-class component templates could be passed directly to `render` as well. This RFC can move forward and use lexical scoping *without* requiring that full feature set to be implemented, however.) In addition, the template passed to `scopedTemplate` would be lexically scoped, meaning that it's values would pull _directly from the surrounding scope_, i.e. the values defined in the test itself. With this new approach, instead of having to call `this.set` for each value you want to reference in the template, you instead just define the data you want and reference it directly in the template. For example:
```

Suggested tweaks because

- we need this functionality regardless
- we don't know what the outcome of that RFC will be
- we won't need to do `scopedTemplate` once we have `<template>`

```js
import { render } from '@ember/test-helpers';
import { scopedTemplate } from 'ember-cli-htmlbars';

// setup elided
test('it works', async function (assert) {
  const somePerson = {
    name: 'Zoey',
    age: 5,
  };

  const component = scopedTemplate(hbs`
    <ProfileCard @name={{somePerson.name}} @age={{somePerson.age}} />
  `);

  await render(component);

  assert.dom(this.element).hasText(somePerson.name);
});
```

> Finally, we need to handle cases where you want to update the backing data and assert against the resulting changes in the rendered output. In the current testing paradigm, we'd update the values using `this.set` and then wait for the state we want to assert against, likely using either `settled` or `waitFor`. This works, but has the downside of either waiting for _everything_ to finish (in the case of `settled`), or waiting for a single thing to finish (in the case of `waitFor`). Instead, we propose a new `rerender` function that exclusively waits on pending render operations, but ignores all other [settledness metrics](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-test-helpers/blob/master/API.md#issettled). When combined with [tracked state](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/autotracking-in-depth/#toc_autotracking-basics), this new `rerender` function allows developers to make updates to their component state and `await` the newly rendered version of their component _without_ having to also wait for other pending timers or run loops. In other words, they can still assert against changes in the DOM, but would also be able to assert against things like loading states without having to use `waitFor` since `rerender` would not wait for things like async operations to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we need to handle cases where you want to update the backing data and assert against the resulting changes in the rendered output. In the current testing paradigm, we'd *usually* just update the values using `this.set`, which immediately triggers a rerender. In more complex cases, e.g. where there is some async operation involved, we would wait for the state we want to assert against, likely using either `settled` or `waitFor`. This works, but has the downside of either waiting for _everything_ to finish (in the case of `settled`), or waiting for a single thing to finish (in the case of `waitFor`).

Instead, we propose a new `rerender` function that exclusively waits on pending render operations, but ignores all other [settledness metrics](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-test-helpers/blob/master/API.md#issettled). When combined with [tracked state](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/autotracking-in-depth/#toc_autotracking-basics), this new `rerender` function allows developers to make updates to their component state and `await` the newly rendered version of their component _without_ having to also wait for other pending timers or run loops. In other words, they can still assert against changes in the DOM, but would also be able to assert against things like loading states without having to use `waitFor` since `rerender` would not wait for things like async operations to complete.
```

Continuing the example from above, here's what we'd expect an update and re-render to look like:

```js
import { render, rerender } from '@ember/test-helpers';
import { scopedTemplate } from 'ember-cli-htmlbars';
import { tracked } from 'tracked-built-ins';

// setup elided
test('it works', async function (assert) {
  const somePerson = tracked({
    name: 'Zoey',
    age: 5,
  });

  const component = scopedTemplate(hbs`
    <ProfileCard @name={{somePerson.name}} @age={{somePerson.age}} />
  `);

  await render(component);

  assert.dom(this.element).hasText(somePerson.name);

  somePerson.name = 'Zoeyyyyyyyyyyyyy';

  await rerender();

  assert.dom(this.element).hasText(somePerson.name);
});
```

> It's worth noting that rendering tests without `get`/`set` are actually possible today using a combination of the `precompileTemplate` function from `@ember/template-compilation`, a scope object containing all of the relevant values referenced in the template, and the `settled` function from `@ember/test-helpers`. Ultimately this RFC would largely end up exposing these existing APIs in a way that is both more user-friendly and better-suited to both [First-Class Component Templates](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/779) and [TypeScript](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/724)

Reviewer: Last sentence here is a little unclear; do you mean something like this?

> Ultimately, this RFC aims to expose these existing APIs…

Author: What I was getting at is that the thing we'd ship would just be friendlier versions of things that mostly already exist, rather than requiring that we add a ton of new plumbing. Trying to emphasize that this isn't as big a change as it might initially sound like. I can try and re-word to make that clearer.

## How we teach this

We'd need to update the [testing components](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/testing/testing-components/) section of the official guides to document this new approach.

We'd also need to update the [API docs for ember-test-helpers](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-test-helpers/blob/master/API.md) for the new version of `render` as well as the newly introduced `rerender` function..

> Finally, we'd need to document the `scopedTemplate` function **in whatever package it ends up living in????????????**.

Reviewer: Propably `@ember/test-helpers`? But yeah, it's an interesting one. 🤔

Author: I'll go with that for now

All things considered, the changes in this RFC should result in a component testing model that ultimately _more_ intuitive. We could also introduce a configuration option to `ember-test-helpers` that would allow users to turn on assertion that prevents rendering tests from being written using the old method to help codebases migrate.

## Drawbacks

Ember's testing setup is one its most valuable features, and this RFC would introduce changes to a testing model that ultimately already works fine. These changes would be introduced alongside the existing rendering test models, so they would not constitute a breaking change, but would introduce additional overhead in terms of "old vs. new", similar to the overhead of Octane, or the Grand Testing Unification RFCs.

## Alternatives

- Leave things as they are.
- Encourage people to use `precompileTemplate` along with the current version of `render`.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe include an option along the lines of "only implement the `render` changes and wait for first-class component templates"—which is a real option here, and *iff* that moves fast, could potentially obviate the need for this one. In that case, we'd want to note that the upside to implementing this is that, since it uses the same primitives, it can be codemodded to that easily and safely, and isn't blocked on needing consensus on that much larger and more involved effort—and provides value to especially but not only TS users *now*.

Release Date: Leave as is
Release Versions: Leave as is
Relevant Team(s): Fill this in with the [team(s)](README.md#relevant-teams) to which this RFC applies
RFC PR: Fill this in with the URL for the Proposal RFC PR
-->

# <RFC title>

## Summary

Introduce new testing utilities that remove the need for the use of `get`/`set` on `this` in test contexts. This will make rendering tests behave more like application code, and also greatly simplify the process of writing rendering tests in TypeScript since it will remove the need to append type information to `this` as properties are set.

## Motivation

Current rendering tests require developers to set values on `this` in order for them to actually be present in the template that gets rendered as part of the test. For example, if we're testing that a component correctly displays a value that gets passed in as an argument, we'd do something like:

```js
this.set('name', 'foo');

await render(hbs`<MyComponent @name={{this.name}} />`);

assert.dom('[data-test-name]').hasText(this.get('name'));
```

This approach has two main issues:

1. It's not consistent with any other programming model in Ember

> 1. It makes writing tests in TypeScript a huge pain

Reviewer 2: Let's beef up the snippet to also do an update and assert on the update output.

Then we can say a third downside is that synchronously flushing the DOM for rendering is very bad.

On the first point: `this.set` is essentially irrelevant everwhere else in Ember. In a post-Octane world, we no longer need to `get` or `set`, and it is, in fact, frequently discouraged as an unnecessary complication. Furthermore, `this.set` inside of a test is even stranger than it was in application code since `set` in tests also manipulates the run loop and flushes the entirety of DOM (in additon to actually setting the value of a property on `this`), and the value of `this` is extremely murky in the first place. The fact that `this` is both the test context _and_ a sort of ersatz scope for the surrounding "template" of the rendering test is not exactly intuitive or easy to teach.

> On the second point: having to set properties on `this` leads to a whole bunch of papercuts when writing tests in TypeScript. [As discussed in the `ember-cli-typescript` docs](https://docs.ember-cli-typescript.com/ember/testing#the-testcontext), rendering tests require developers to arbitrarily add (and change) properties on `this`. Developers thus have to define (and re-define) the interface for `this` to accommodate _all_ of those properties to prevent TypeScript from complaining that each of the values that were set don't exist on the `TestContext` type. Beyond simply being annoying, this actually makes it impossible to write actually safe and useful types spanning multiple tests: properties declared for one test appear to be available in all of the tests in a module (and get autocompleted accordingly), whether or not they actually _are_ available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the second point: having to set properties on `this` leads to a whole bunch of papercuts when writing tests in TypeScript. [As discussed in the `ember-cli-typescript` docs](https://docs.ember-cli-typescript.com/ember/testing#the-testcontext), rendering tests require developers to arbitrarily add (and change) properties on `this`. Developers thus have to define (and re-define) the interface for `this` to accommodate _all_ of those properties to prevent TypeScript from complaining that each of the values that were set don't exist on the `TestContext` type. Beyond simply being annoying, this actually makes it impossible to write safe and useful types spanning multiple tests: properties declared for one test appear to be available in all of the tests in a module (and get autocompleted accordingly), whether or not they actually _are_ available.
```

The goal of this RFC, then, is to greatly simplify the testing model by removing the need for `get` and `set` in rendering tests, thereby reducing the reliance on `this`.

> ## Detailed design

Reviewer 2: I think we need separate sections for each of the three major changes listed. Each section should contain relevant API details including API signature (can be psuedo-TypeScript if needed, but _probably_ could be perfectly valid TS), any timing semantics, return values, etc.

Specifically we need:

* interfaces for each of the proposed methods / tweaks (can be psuedo-TypeScript if needed, but _probably_ could be perfectly valid TS)
* timing semantics details for `await rerender()`; explicitly stating what the promise resolution **means** (e.g. that rendering is completed, not full settledness) in terms of the pre-existing `getSettledState` / `settled` APIs
* details around when `await rerender()` can be called; should it be allowed in non-rendering tests (IMO yes)?
* what import path each of these functions is going to come from?
* does `scopedTemplate` result in a "loose mode" or "strict mode" component template? 
* should include info on supported Ember versions (lexically scoped templates in loose mode, are only supported for Ember 3.28+; for strict mode it would be 3.25+)
*

Reviewer 2: @cafreeman just to double check, from your perspective these bullets are all addressed now?

We will introduce several new/refactored utilities for use in rendering tests:

> 1. A new version of `render` that accepts a component rather than a template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Update the `render` helper to accept either a component or a template snippet.
```

> 1. A new `scopedTemplate` function that accepts a template and returns a component _and is lexically scoped_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. A new `scopedTemplate` function that accepts a template and returns a component _that uses lexically scoped data_
```

> 1. A new `rerender` function that would be used after the initial `render` call

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. A new `rerender` function that would be used after the initial `render` call to wait for DOM updates
```

> Rendering tests currently work by rendering a template that is bound to the `this` of the surrounding test file. This is why developers have to call `this.set` in the first place, since the value of `this` in a given test is doing double duty as both the actual test context AND the backing object for the template that eventually gets rendered. Since we want to move away from this very behavior, we need a version of `render` that accepts a fully-formed component instead, since components have their own context and are self-contained.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rendering tests currently work by rendering a template that is bound to the `this` of the surrounding test. This is why developers have to call `this.set` in the first place, since the value of `this` in a given test is doing double duty as both the actual test context AND the backing object for the template that eventually gets rendered. Since we want to move away from this very behavior, we need a version of `render` that accepts a fully-formed component instead, since components have their own context and are self-contained.
```

> Once we have this new version of `render`, we also need a convenient way of creating components to pass to it. This is where the `scopedTemplate` function comes in. `scopedTemplate` would accept a template created using the `hbs` macro, and return a template-only component which could then be passed to our new version of `render`. (A proposal like `<template>` from [RFC #0779](https://github.com/chriskrycho/ember-rfcs/blob/fcct/text/0779-first-class-component-templates.md) would supersede this, as the components created with first-class component templates could be passed directly to `render` as well. This RFC can move forward and use lexical scoping _without_ requiring that full feature set to be implemented, however.) In addition, the template passed to `scopedTemplate` would be lexically scoped, meaning that its values would pull _directly from the surrounding scope_, i.e. the values defined in the test itself. With this new approach, instead of having to call `this.set` for each value you want to reference in the template, you instead just define the data you want and reference it directly in the template. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once we have this new version of `render`, we also need a convenient way of creating components to pass to it. This is where the `scopedTemplate` function comes in. `scopedTemplate` would accept a template created using the `hbs` macro, and return a template-only component which could then be passed to our new version of `render`. (A proposal like `<template>` from [RFC #0779](https://github.com/chriskrycho/ember-rfcs/blob/fcct/text/0779-first-class-component-templates.md) could supersede this, as the components created with first-class component templates could be passed directly to `render` as well. This RFC can move forward and use lexical scoping _without_ requiring that full feature set to be implemented, however.) In addition, the template passed to `scopedTemplate` would have access to lexically scoped data, meaning that its values would pull _directly from the surrounding scope_, i.e. the values defined in the test itself. With this new approach, instead of having to call `this.set` for each value you want to reference in the template, you instead just define the data you want and reference it directly in the template. For example:
```

```js
import { render } from '@ember/test-helpers';
import { scopedTemplate } from 'ember-cli-htmlbars';

// setup elided
test('it works', async function (assert) {
  const somePerson = {
    name: 'Zoey',
    age: 5,
  };

>   const component = scopedTemplate(hbs`

Reviewer 2: I think we actually want one of these instead:

```js
const component = scopedTemplate``;
const other = scopedTemplate(``);
```

I don't htink we want ```scopedTemplate(hbs``)``` because the precompilation details would be strange

    <ProfileCard @name={{somePerson.name}} @age={{somePerson.age}} />
  `);

  await render(component);

  assert.dom(this.element).hasText(somePerson.name);
});
```

> Finally, we need to handle cases where you want to update the backing data and assert against the resulting changes in the rendered output. In the current testing paradigm, we'd _usually_ just update the values using `this.set`, which immediately triggers a rerender. In more complex cases, e.g. where there is some async operation involved, we would wait for the state we want to assert against, likely using either `settled` or `waitFor`. This works, but has the downside of either waiting for _everything_ to finish (in the case of `settled`), or waiting for a single thing to finish (in the case of `waitFor`).

Reviewer 2: > but has the downside of either waiting for _everything_ to finish (in the case of `settled`), or waiting for a single thing to finish (in the case of `waitFor`)

For what it is worth, it is possible to use a combination of `waitUntil` and `getSettledState` to only wait for a subset of "setltedness" but it is error prone, and still impossible to know when "rendering is done" vs other run-loop synchronized things are done.

Continuing the example from above, here's what we'd expect an update and re-render to look like:

```js
import { render, rerender } from '@ember/test-helpers';
import { scopedTemplate } from 'ember-cli-htmlbars';
import { tracked } from 'tracked-built-ins';

// setup elided
test('it works', async function (assert) {
  const somePerson = tracked({
    name: 'Zoey',
    age: 5,
  });

  const component = scopedTemplate(hbs`
    <ProfileCard @name={{somePerson.name}} @age={{somePerson.age}} />
  `);

  await render(component);

  assert.dom(this.element).hasText(somePerson.name);

  somePerson.name = 'Zoeyyyyyyyyyyyyy';

  await rerender();

  assert.dom(this.element).hasText(somePerson.name);
});

> ```

Reviewer 2: Since `tracked-built-ins` is a separate package (not part of the core experience) I think we need to update this snippet to be something more "default". One example could be:

```js
  const somePerson = new class {
    @tracked name = "Zoey";
    @tracked age = 5;
  }
```

alternatively we could explain usage of `@glimmer/tracking/primitives/storage`

> It's worth noting that rendering tests without `get`/`set` are actually possible today using a combination of the `precompileTemplate` function from `@ember/template-compilation`, a scope object containing all of the relevant values referenced in the template, and the `settled` function from `@ember/test-helpers`. Accordingly, the implementation of this RFC would largely involve exposing these existing APIs in a way that is both more user-friendly and better-suited to both [First-Class Component Templates](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/779) and [TypeScript](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/724), rather than introducing a significant amount of new internal functionality.

Reviewer 2: Would it be useful to show what that would look like?

Author: I think the previous example (with `scopedTemplate` and `rerender`) is showing what those "friendlier versions" look like, no?

Reviewer: If I'm reading Rob correctly, the suggestion is to show what the "desugaring" that users can author today is.

> ## How we teach this

Reviewer 2: Should include the API doc prose for each of the API changes mentioned

RFC PR: Fill this in with the URL for the Proposal RFC PR
-->

# <RFC title>

## Summary

Introduce new testing utilities that remove the need for the use of `this.get`/`this.set` in test contexts. This will make rendering tests behave more like application code, and also greatly simplify the process of writing rendering tests in TypeScript since it will remove the need to append type information to `this` as properties are set.

## Motivation

Current rendering tests require developers to set values on `this` in order for them to actually be present in the template that gets rendered as part of the test. For example, if we're testing that a component correctly displays a value that gets passed in as an argument, we'd do something like:

```js
this.set('name', 'foo');

await render(hbs`<MyComponent @name={{this.name}} />`);

assert.dom('[data-test-name]').hasText(this.get('name'));

this.set('name', 'FOO');

assert.dom('[data-test-name]').hasText(this.get('name'));
```

This approach has three main issues:

1. It's not consistent with any other programming model in Ember
1. It synchronously flushes the DOM
1. It makes writing tests in TypeScript a huge pain

> On the first point: `this.set` is essentially irrelevant everwhere else in Ember. In a post-Octane world, we no longer need to `get` or `set`, and it is, in fact, frequently discouraged as an unnecessary complication. Additonally, the value of `this` inside of a test is extremely murky. The fact that `this` is both the test context _and_ a sort of ersatz scope for the surrounding "template" of the rendering test is not exactly intuitive or easy to teach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the first point: `this.set` is essentially irrelevant everywhere else in Ember. In a post-Octane world, we no longer need to `get` or `set`, and it is, in fact, frequently discouraged as an unnecessary complication. Additonally, the value of `this` inside of a test is extremely murky. The fact that `this` is both the test context _and_ a sort of ersatz scope for the surrounding "template" of the rendering test is not exactly intuitive or easy to teach.
```

```js
import { render } from '@ember/test-helpers';
import { scopedTemplate } from 'ember-cli-htmlbars';

// setup elided
test('it works', async function (assert) {
  const somePerson = {
    name: 'Zoey',
    age: 5,
  };

>   const component = scopedTemplate(`

Reviewer: One question this raises for me is: what are the semantics of name resolution within this? I think it’s basically “resolver-powered resolution plus access to local scope” (as is available on 3.28+), but worth making explicit.

Reviewer 2: @chriskrycho - This is what I was getting at WRT loose vs strict; IMO we should go with strict mode (and possible expose a loose + lexical method)

Reviewer: Ah, yep. I had missed the bullet point in your list. I agree: using strict mode her sets everyone up for success later (though we should call out that it also increases migration effort).

```ts
function scopedTemplate(templateString: string): Component;
```

Much like `hbs`, `scopedTemplate` would be a Babel macro, meaning it could be invoked like a function (e.g. `scopedTemplate('<Foo />')`) or like a tagged template string (e.g. `` scopedTemplate`<Foo />` ``), and it does _not_ accept any kind of string interpolation or concatentation (i.e.`` scopedTemplate`<Foo @name=${'blah'} />` `` is not allowed).

In addition, the template passed to `scopedTemplate` would have access to lexically scoped data, meaning that its values would pull _directly from the surrounding scope_, i.e. the values defined in the test itself. With this new approach, instead of having to call `this.set` for each value you want to reference in the template, you instead just define the data you want and reference it directly in the template. For example:

```js
import { render } from '@ember/test-helpers';
import { scopedTemplate } from '@ember/template-compilation';

> 

Reviewer: Given we've said this is in strict mode, we would need an import here:

```suggestion
import ProfileCard from 'my-app/components/profile-card';

```

When combined with [tracked state](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/autotracking-in-depth/#toc_autotracking-basics), this new `rerender` function allows developers to make updates to their component state and `await` the newly rendered version of their component _without_ having to also wait for other pending timers or run loops. In other words, they can still assert against changes in the DOM, but would also be able to assert against things like loading states without having to use `waitFor` since `rerender` would not wait for things like async operations to complete.

Continuing the example from above, here's what we'd expect an update and re-render to look like:

```js
import { render, rerender } from '@ember/test-helpers';
import { scopedTemplate } from '@ember/template-compilation';
import { tracked } from '@glimmer/tracking';

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import ProfileCard from 'my-app/components/profile-card';

```

## Alternatives

- Leave things as they are.
- Encourage people to use `precompileTemplate` along with the current version of `render`.
- Only implement the changes to `render` and wait for first-class component templates rather than introducing `scopedTemplate`
  - That said, the upside to implementing `scopedTemplate` along with the changes to `render` is that it would use the same primitives as first-class component templates, which allows tests written using `scopedTemplate` to be codemodded easily and safely, and allows us to moving the state of rendering tests forward without having to wait on the much larger first-class component template implementation. In addition, implementing `scopedTemplate` sooner provides a lot of value to TypeScript users immediately.

## Unresolved questions

> - Should we also support loose-mode templates for `scopedTemplate` in some way?

Reviewer: I keep going back and forth; is there any benefit here for *migration*? The angle I'm thinking about is the codemoddability here—if we support loose mode, can we more or less do an in-place replacement of `hbs` with `scopedTemplate` for a first pass?

Obviously there are downsides there in terms of teaching model: loose mode with values in scope *and* resolution both working is very, very finicky, but it does make for a more iterative migration. I think the "just use strict mode" as the recommendation is still right, but calling out this bit (if I have it right!) here might be good.
